README.rst, before:

VulnerableCode
==============

|Build Status| |License| |Python 3.8| |stability-wip| |Gitter chat|


.. |Build Status| image:: https://github.com/nexB/vulnerablecode/workflows/CI/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/nexB/vulnerablecode/actions?query=workflow%3ACI
.. |License| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg
   :target: https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0
.. |Python 3.8| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8-blue.svg
   :target: https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-380/
.. |stability-wip| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/stability-work_in_progress-lightgrey.svg
.. |Gitter chat| image:: https://badges.gitter.im/gitterHQ/gitter.png
   :target: https://gitter.im/aboutcode-org/vulnerablecode


VulnerableCode is a free and open database of FOSS software package
vulnerabilities and the tools to create and keep the data current.

It is made by the FOSS community to improve and secure the open source software
ecosystem.

.. image:: README.gif

Why?
----

The existing solutions are commercial proprietary vulnerability databases, which
in itself does not make sense because the data is about FOSS (Free and Open
Source Software).

The National Vulnerability Database which is a primary centralized data source
for known vulnerabilities is not particularly well suited to address FOSS
security issues because:

1. It predates the explosion of FOSS software usage
2. It's data format reflects a commercial vendor-centric point of view in part
   due to the usage of `CPE <https://nvd.nist.gov/products/cpe>`__ to map
   vulnerabilities to existing packages.
3. CPEs are just not designed to map FOSS to vulnerabilities owing to their
   vendor-product centric semantics. This makes it really hard to answer the
   fundamental questions "Is package foo vulnerable" and "Is package foo
   vulnerable to vulnerability bar?"

How
---

VulnerableCode independently aggregates many software vulnerability data sources
and supports data re-creation in a decentralized fashion. These data sources
(see complete list `here <./SOURCES.rst>`_) include security advisories
published by Linux and BSD distributions, application software package managers
and package repositories, FOSS projects, GitHub and more. Thanks to this
approach, the data is focused on specific ecosystems yet aggregated in a single
database that enables querying a richer graph of relations between multiple
incarnations of a package. Being specific increases the accuracy and validity
of the data as the same version of an upstream package across different
ecosystems may or may not be vulnerable to the same vulnerability.

The packages are identified using Package URL `PURL 
<https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec>`__ as primary identifiers rather than
CPEs. This makes answers to questions such as "Is package foo vulnerable
to vulnerability bar?"  much more accurate and easy to interpret.


The primary access to the data is through a REST API.

In addition, an emerging web interface goal is to support vulnerabilities data
browsing and search and progressively to enable community curation of the data
with the addition of new packages and vulnerabilities, and reviewing and
updating their relationships. 

We also plan to mine for vulnerabilities which didn't receive any
exposure due to various reasons like but not limited to the complicated
procedure to receive CVE ID or not able to classify a bug as a security
compromise.

Recent presentations:

- `Open Source Summit 2020 <docs/Why-Is-There-No-Free-Software-Vulnerability-Database-v1.0.pdf>`__



Setting up VulnerableCode
-------------------------

First clone the source code::

    git clone https://github.com/nexB/vulnerablecode.git
    cd vulnerablecode


Using Docker Compose
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please find the docker documentation in `Docker Installation <docs/docker_installation.rst>`__

Without Docker Compose
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**System requirements**

-  Python 3.8+
-  PostgreSQL 9+
-  Compiler toolchain and development files for Python and PostgreSQL

On Debian-based distros, these can be installed with::

    sudo apt-get install python3-venv python3-dev postgresql libpq-dev build-essential


**Database configuration** 

- Create a user named ``vulnerablecode``. Use ``vulnerablecode`` as password
  when prompted::

    sudo -u postgres createuser --no-createrole --no-superuser --login \
        --inherit --createdb --pwprompt vulnerablecode``

- Create a databased named ``vulnerablecode``::

    createdb --encoding=utf-8 --owner=vulnerablecode  --user=vulnerablecode \
        --password --host=localhost --port=5432 vulnerablecode


**Application dependencies**

Create a virtualenv, install dependencies, generate static files and run the database migrations::

    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    python manage.py collectstatic
    python manage.py migrate


For a production mode, an environment variable named ``SECRET_KEY`` needs to be
set. The recommended way to generate this key is to use the code Django includes
for this purpose::

    SECRET_KEY=$(python -c "from django.core.management import utils; print(utils.get_random_secret_key())")

You will also need to setup the `ALLOWED_HOSTS` array inside `vulnerablecode/settings.py` according to
[django specifications](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts). One example would be:
.. code-block:: python

    ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['vulnerablecode.your.domain.example.com']

You can specify several hosts by separating them with a comma (`,`)

Using Nix
~~~~~~~~~

You can install VulnerableCode with `Nix <https://nixos.org/download.html>`__ 
(`Flake <https://nixos.wiki/wiki/Flakes>`__ support is needed)::

    cd etc/nix
    nix-shell -p nixFlakes --run "nix --print-build-logs flake check " # build & run tests 

There are several options to use the Nix version::

    # Enter an interactive environment with all dependencies set up.
    cd etc/nix
    nix develop
    > ../../manage.py ... # invoke the local checkout
    > vulnerablecode-manage.py ... # invoke manage.py as installed in the nix store

    # Test the import prodecure using the Nix version.
    etc/nix/test-import-using-nix.sh --all # import everything
    # Test the import using the local checkout.
    INSTALL_DIR=. etc/nix/test-import-using-nix.sh ruby # import ruby only


**Keeping the Nix setup in sync**

The Nix installation uses `mach-nix <https://github.com/DavHau/mach-nix>`__ to
handle Python dependencies because some dependencies are currently not available
as Nix packages. All Python dependencies are automatically fetched from
``./requirements.txt``. If the ``mach-nix``-based installation fails, you might
need to update ``mach-nix`` itself and the `pypi-deps-db
<https://github.com/DavHau/pypi-deps-db>`_ version in use (see
``etc/nix/flake.nix:inputs.machnix`` and ``machnixFor.pypiDataRev``).

Non-Python dependencies are curated in::

    etc/nix/flake.nix:vulnerablecode.propagatedBuildInputs



Run Tests
---------
Make sure to install dev dependencies by running ``pip install -r requirements-dev.txt``
Use these commands to run code style checks and the test suite::

    black -l 100 --check .
    python -m pytest


.. _Data import:

Data import
-----------

Some data importers use the GitHub APIs. For this, export the ``GH_TOKEN``
environment variable with::

    export GH_TOKEN=yourgithubtoken


See `GitHub docs  
<https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token>`_ 
for instructions on how to obtain your GitHub token.

To run all data importers use::

    python manage.py import --all

To list available importers use::

    python manage.py import --list

To run specific importers::

    python manage.py import rust npm 


REST API access
---------------

Start the webserver::

    python manage.py runserver


For full documentation about API endpoints use this URL::

    http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/docs



Continuous periodic Data import
-------------------------------


If you want to run the import periodically, you can use a systemd timer::

    $ cat ~/.config/systemd/user/vulnerablecode.service

    [Unit]
    Description=Update vulnerability database

    [Service]
    Type=oneshot
    ExecStart=/path/to/venv/bin/python /path/to/vulnerablecode/manage.py import --all

    $ cat ~/.config/systemd/user/vulnerablecode.timer

    [Unit]
    Description=Periodically update vulnerability database

    [Timer]
    OnCalendar=daily

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target


Start this "timer" with::

    systemctl --user daemon-reload
    systemctl --user start vulnerablecode.timer

Commit message:

Add tl;dr and warn about serving on network
Explicitly mention that serving VulnerableCode on a network  could be
security issue and there are several steps that may be needed to secure
such a deployment.
Further, a quick tl;dr to run with docker in readme is added for
convenience.

Signed-off-by: Hritik Vijay <hritikxx8@gmail.com>

README.rst, after:

VulnerableCode
==============

|Build Status| |License| |Python 3.8| |stability-wip| |Gitter chat|


.. |Build Status| image:: https://github.com/nexB/vulnerablecode/workflows/CI/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/nexB/vulnerablecode/actions?query=workflow%3ACI
.. |License| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg
   :target: https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0
.. |Python 3.8| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8-blue.svg
   :target: https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-380/
.. |stability-wip| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/stability-work_in_progress-lightgrey.svg
.. |Gitter chat| image:: https://badges.gitter.im/gitterHQ/gitter.png
   :target: https://gitter.im/aboutcode-org/vulnerablecode


VulnerableCode is a free and open database of FOSS software package
vulnerabilities and the tools to create and keep the data current.

It is made by the FOSS community to improve and secure the open source software
ecosystem.

.. image:: README.gif

Why?
----

The existing solutions are commercial proprietary vulnerability databases, which
in itself does not make sense because the data is about FOSS (Free and Open
Source Software).

The National Vulnerability Database which is a primary centralized data source
for known vulnerabilities is not particularly well suited to address FOSS
security issues because:

1. It predates the explosion of FOSS software usage
2. It's data format reflects a commercial vendor-centric point of view in part
   due to the usage of `CPE <https://nvd.nist.gov/products/cpe>`__ to map
   vulnerabilities to existing packages.
3. CPEs are just not designed to map FOSS to vulnerabilities owing to their
   vendor-product centric semantics. This makes it really hard to answer the
   fundamental questions "Is package foo vulnerable" and "Is package foo
   vulnerable to vulnerability bar?"

How
---

VulnerableCode independently aggregates many software vulnerability data sources
and supports data re-creation in a decentralized fashion. These data sources
(see complete list `here <./SOURCES.rst>`_) include security advisories
published by Linux and BSD distributions, application software package managers
and package repositories, FOSS projects, GitHub and more. Thanks to this
approach, the data is focused on specific ecosystems yet aggregated in a single
database that enables querying a richer graph of relations between multiple
incarnations of a package. Being specific increases the accuracy and validity
of the data as the same version of an upstream package across different
ecosystems may or may not be vulnerable to the same vulnerability.

The packages are identified using Package URL `PURL 
<https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec>`__ as primary identifiers rather than
CPEs. This makes answers to questions such as "Is package foo vulnerable
to vulnerability bar?"  much more accurate and easy to interpret.


The primary access to the data is through a REST API.

In addition, an emerging web interface goal is to support vulnerabilities data
browsing and search and progressively to enable community curation of the data
with the addition of new packages and vulnerabilities, and reviewing and
updating their relationships. 

We also plan to mine for vulnerabilities which didn't receive any
exposure due to various reasons like but not limited to the complicated
procedure to receive CVE ID or not able to classify a bug as a security
compromise.

Recent presentations:

- `Open Source Summit 2020 <docs/Why-Is-There-No-Free-Software-Vulnerability-Database-v1.0.pdf>`__



Setting up VulnerableCode
-------------------------

First clone the source code::

    git clone https://github.com/nexB/vulnerablecode.git
    cd vulnerablecode


Using Docker Compose
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please find the docker documentation in `Docker Installation <docs/docker_installation.rst>`__

TL;DR
""""""

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/nexB/vulnerablecode.git && cd vulnerablecode
    make envfile
    docker-compose up

Go to http://localhost:8000/ on a web browser to access the web UI.


Without Docker Compose
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**System requirements**

-  Python 3.8+
-  PostgreSQL 9+
-  Compiler toolchain and development files for Python and PostgreSQL

On Debian-based distros, these can be installed with::

    sudo apt-get install python3-venv python3-dev postgresql libpq-dev build-essential


**Database configuration** 

- Create a user named ``vulnerablecode``. Use ``vulnerablecode`` as password
  when prompted::

    sudo -u postgres createuser --no-createrole --no-superuser --login \
        --inherit --createdb --pwprompt vulnerablecode``

- Create a databased named ``vulnerablecode``::

    createdb --encoding=utf-8 --owner=vulnerablecode  --user=vulnerablecode \
        --password --host=localhost --port=5432 vulnerablecode


**Application dependencies**

Create a virtualenv, install dependencies, generate static files and run the database migrations::

    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    python manage.py collectstatic
    python manage.py migrate


For a production mode, an environment variable named ``SECRET_KEY`` needs to be
set. The recommended way to generate this key is to use the code Django includes
for this purpose::

    SECRET_KEY=$(python -c "from django.core.management import utils; print(utils.get_random_secret_key())")

You will also need to setup the `ALLOWED_HOSTS` array inside `vulnerablecode/settings.py` according to
[django specifications](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts). One example would be:
.. code-block:: python

    ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['vulnerablecode.your.domain.example.com']

You can specify several hosts by separating them with a comma (`,`)

Using Nix
~~~~~~~~~

You can install VulnerableCode with `Nix <https://nixos.org/download.html>`__ 
(`Flake <https://nixos.wiki/wiki/Flakes>`__ support is needed)::

    cd etc/nix
    nix-shell -p nixFlakes --run "nix --print-build-logs flake check " # build & run tests 

There are several options to use the Nix version::

    # Enter an interactive environment with all dependencies set up.
    cd etc/nix
    nix develop
    > ../../manage.py ... # invoke the local checkout
    > vulnerablecode-manage.py ... # invoke manage.py as installed in the nix store

    # Test the import prodecure using the Nix version.
    etc/nix/test-import-using-nix.sh --all # import everything
    # Test the import using the local checkout.
    INSTALL_DIR=. etc/nix/test-import-using-nix.sh ruby # import ruby only


**Keeping the Nix setup in sync**

The Nix installation uses `mach-nix <https://github.com/DavHau/mach-nix>`__ to
handle Python dependencies because some dependencies are currently not available
as Nix packages. All Python dependencies are automatically fetched from
``./requirements.txt``. If the ``mach-nix``-based installation fails, you might
need to update ``mach-nix`` itself and the `pypi-deps-db
<https://github.com/DavHau/pypi-deps-db>`_ version in use (see
``etc/nix/flake.nix:inputs.machnix`` and ``machnixFor.pypiDataRev``).

Non-Python dependencies are curated in::

    etc/nix/flake.nix:vulnerablecode.propagatedBuildInputs



Run Tests
---------
Make sure to install dev dependencies by running ``pip install -r requirements-dev.txt``
Use these commands to run code style checks and the test suite::

    black -l 100 --check .
    python -m pytest


.. _Data import:

Data import
-----------

Some data importers use the GitHub APIs. For this, export the ``GH_TOKEN``
environment variable with::

    export GH_TOKEN=yourgithubtoken


See `GitHub docs  
<https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token>`_ 
for instructions on how to obtain your GitHub token.

To run all data importers use::

    python manage.py import --all

To list available importers use::

    python manage.py import --list

To run specific importers::

    python manage.py import rust npm 


REST API access
---------------

Start the webserver::

    python manage.py runserver


For full documentation about API endpoints use this URL::

    http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/docs



Continuous periodic Data import
-------------------------------


If you want to run the import periodically, you can use a systemd timer::

    $ cat ~/.config/systemd/user/vulnerablecode.service

    [Unit]
    Description=Update vulnerability database

    [Service]
    Type=oneshot
    ExecStart=/path/to/venv/bin/python /path/to/vulnerablecode/manage.py import --all

    $ cat ~/.config/systemd/user/vulnerablecode.timer

    [Unit]
    Description=Periodically update vulnerability database

    [Timer]
    OnCalendar=daily

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target


Start this "timer" with::

    systemctl --user daemon-reload
    systemctl --user start vulnerablecode.timer
